# Bulk-Protein-Modeling Version 1.0

## Introduction
Protein modeling is the process of attempting to determine a proteins 3D structure by using its amino acid sequence. Determining a proteins 3D structure manually through experimentation can take years and isn't even guaranteed to be successful. Luckily, there are software tools available to help researcheres predict the structure of a target protein within a reaonable amount of time. One such tool is [MODELLER](https://salilab.org/modeller/). This software uses a template protein to attempt to predict the structure of a target protein. In addition, the [NCBI BLAST](https://blast.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/Blast.cgi) software can be used to help choose a template protein for the protein being modeled. Software like these are of great value to researchers in Bioinformatics, but sometimes they may what to perform protein modeling on a large number of proteins. Doing this, researchers can spend alot of time doing redundant tasks that could be automated. 

This software was designed to automate the tasks for performing protein modeling using the MODELLER and NCBI BLAST softwares. This software will read a FASTA file (containing multiple sequences) and perform protein modeling on each one. For each sequence, it will automatically run the PSI BLAST algorithm on the protein's amino acid sequence to determine best template protein to use, download the template protein from PDB, and run the MODELLER software to predict the protein's structure. Future versions of this software will include steps to perform verification for the protein model and search online databases for other proteins having a similar structure.
